# Cloud Service Agreement

1. <span class="header_2" id="1">Service</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="1.1">Access and Use.</span>  During the <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Period</span> and subject to the terms of this Agreement, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> may (a) access and use the Cloud Service; and (b) copy and use the included Software and Documentation only as needed to access and use the Cloud Service, in each case, for its internal business purposes.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="1.2">Support.</span>  During the <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Period</span>, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will provide <span class="orderform_link">Technical Support</span> as described in the Order Form.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="1.3">User Accounts.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> is responsible for all actions on Users' accounts and for all Users' compliance with this Agreement. <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> and Users must protect the confidentiality of their passwords and login credentials.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="1.4">Feedback and Usage Data.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> may, but is not required to, give <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> Feedback, in which case <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> gives Feedback "AS IS". <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may use all Feedback freely without any restriction or obligation. <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may collect and analyze Usage Data, and may freely use Usage Data to maintain, improve, enhance, and promote <span class="coverpage_link">Provider's</span> products and services. However, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may only disclose Usage Data to others if it is aggregated and does not identify <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> or Users.
    5. <span class="header_3" id="1.5">Customer Content.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may copy, display, modify, and use Customer Content only as needed to provide and maintain the Product and related offerings. <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> is responsible for the accuracy and content of Customer Content.
    6. <span class="header_3" id="1.6">Machine Learning.</span>  Usage Data and Customer Content may be used to develop, train, or enhance artificial intelligence or machine learning models that are part of <span class="coverpage_link">Provider's</span> products and services. Usage Data and Customer Content must be aggregated and de-identified before such use.

2. <span class="header_2" id="2">Restrictions & Obligations</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="2.1">Restrictions on Customer.</span>  Except as expressly permitted by this Agreement, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> will not (and will not allow anyone else to): (i) reverse engineer, decompile, or attempt to discover any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of the Product; (ii) provide, sell, transfer, sublicense, lend, distribute, rent, or otherwise allow others to access or use the Product; (iii) remove any proprietary notices or labels; (iv) copy, modify, or create derivative works of the Product; (v) conduct security or vulnerability tests on, interfere with the operation of, cause performance degradation of, or circumvent access restrictions of the Product; (vi) use the Product to develop a competing service or product; (vii) use the Product with any High Risk Activities or with any activity prohibited by Applicable Laws.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="2.2">Suspension.</span>  If <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> (a) has an outstanding, undisputed balance on its account for more than 30 days; (b) breaches Section 2.1; or (c) uses the Product in violation of the Agreement or in a way that materially and negatively impacts the Product or others, then <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may temporarily suspend <span class="coverpage_link">Customer's</span> access to the Product.

3. <span class="header_2" id="3">Privacy & Security</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="3.1">Personal Data.</span>  Before submitting Personal Data governed by GDPR, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> must enter into a data processing agreement with <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span>. If the parties have a <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, each party will comply with its obligations in the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, and the terms of the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span> will control in the event of any conflict with this Agreement.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="3.2">Prohibited Data.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> will not submit Prohibited Data to the Product unless authorized by the Order Form or Key Terms.

4. <span class="header_2" id="4">Payment & Taxes</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="4.1">Fees.</span>  Unless the Order Form specifies a different currency, all Fees are in U.S. Dollars and are exclusive of taxes. Except for the prorated refund of prepaid Fees allowed with specific termination rights, Fees are non-refundable.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="4.2">Invoicing.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will send invoices for usage-based Fees in arrears and for all other Fees in advance, according to the <span class="orderform_link">Payment Process</span>.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="4.3">Automatic Payment.</span>  For a <span class="orderform_link">Payment Process</span> with automatic payment, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will automatically charge the payment method on file and <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> authorizes all such charges.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="4.4">Taxes.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> is responsible for all duties, taxes, and levies that apply to Fees, but is not responsible for <span class="coverpage_link">Provider's</span> income taxes.
    5. <span class="header_3" id="4.5">Payment.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> will pay <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> Fees and taxes according to the <span class="orderform_link">Payment Process</span>.
    6. <span class="header_3" id="4.6">Payment Dispute.</span>  If <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> has a good-faith disagreement about the Fees charged, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> must notify <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> before payment is due and must pay all undisputed amounts on time. The parties will work together to resolve the dispute within 15 days.

5. <span class="header_2" id="5">Term & Termination</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="5.1">Order Form and Agreement.</span>  For each Order Form, the Agreement will start on the <span class="orderform_link">Order Date</span>, continue through the <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Period</span>, and automatically renew for additional <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Periods</span> unless one party gives notice of non-renewal before the <span class="orderform_link">Non-Renewal Notice Date</span>.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="5.2">Framework Terms.</span>  These Framework Terms will start on the <span class="keyterms_link">Effective Date</span> and continue for the longer of one year or until all Order Forms governed by the Framework Terms have ended.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="5.3">Termination.</span>  Either party may terminate the Framework Terms or an Order Form immediately: (a) if the other party fails to cure a material breach following 30 days notice; (b) upon notice for uncurable breaches, dissolution, insolvency, or bankruptcy proceedings continuing more than 60 days.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="5.4">Force Majeure.</span>  Either party may terminate an affected Order Form upon notice if a Force Majeure Event prevents the Product from materially operating for 30 or more consecutive days. <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will pay a prorated refund of any prepaid Fees for the remainder of the <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Period</span>.
    5. <span class="header_3" id="5.5">Effect of Termination.</span>  Upon any expiration or termination: (a) <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> will no longer have any right to use the Product; (b) upon <span class="coverpage_link">Customer's</span> request, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will delete Customer Content within 60 days; (c) each Recipient will return or destroy Discloser's Confidential Information; (d) <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will submit a final invoice for all outstanding Fees accrued before termination.
    6. <span class="header_3" id="5.6">Survival.</span>  Sections 1.4, 1.6, 2.1, 4, 5.5, 5.6, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 survive expiration or termination.

6. <span class="header_2" id="6">Representations & Warranties</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="6.1">Mutual.</span>  Each party represents and warrants that: (a) it has the legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement; (b) it is duly organized and in good standing; (c) it will comply with all Applicable Laws; and (d) it will comply with the <span class="keyterms_link">Additional Warranties</span>.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="6.2">From Customer.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> represents and warrants that it, all Users, and anyone submitting Customer Content each have and will continue to have all rights necessary to submit or make available Customer Content to the Product.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="6.3">From Provider.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> represents and warrants that it will not materially reduce the general functionality of the Cloud Service during the <span class="orderform_link">Subscription Period</span>.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="6.4">Provider Warranty Remedy.</span>  If <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> breaches the warranty in Section 6.3, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> must give <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> notice within 45 days of discovering the issue. Within 45 days, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will attempt to restore the general functionality. If <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> cannot resolve the issue, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> may terminate the affected Order Form and receive a prorated refund.

7. <span class="header_2" id="7">Disclaimer of Warranties</span>
    1. Except for the warranties in Section 6, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> and <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> each **disclaim all other warranties and conditions, whether express or implied, including the implied warranties and conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement**.

8. <span class="header_2" id="8">Limitation of Liability</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="8.1">Liability Caps.</span>
        a. **Except as provided in Section 8.4, each party's total cumulative liability for all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">General Cap Amount</span>.**
        b. **If there are <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span>, each party's total cumulative liability for all <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Cap Amount</span>.**
    2. <span class="header_3" id="8.2">Damages Waiver.</span>  **Except as provided in Section 8.4, under no circumstances will either party be liable to the other for lost profits or revenues, or for consequential, special, indirect, exemplary, punitive, or incidental damages relating to this Agreement.**
    3. <span class="header_3" id="8.3">Applicability.</span>  **The limitations and waivers in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 apply to all liability, whether in tort, contract, breach of statutory duty, or otherwise.**
    4. <span class="header_3" id="8.4">Exceptions.</span>  The liability cap in Section 8.1(a) does not apply to any <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span>. Section 8.1 does not apply to any <span class="keyterms_link">Unlimited Claims</span>. Section 8.2 does not apply to any <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> or a breach of Section 10 (Confidentiality).

9. <span class="header_2" id="9">Indemnification</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="9.1">Protection by Provider.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Provider Covered Claims</span> made by someone other than <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span>, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer's</span> Affiliates, or Users, and all out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="9.2">Protection by Customer.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Customer Covered Claims</span> made by someone other than <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> or its Affiliates, and all out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="9.3">Procedure.</span>  The Indemnifying Party's obligations are contingent upon the Protected Party: (a) promptly notifying the Indemnifying Party; (b) providing reasonable assistance at the Indemnifying Party's expense; and (c) giving the Indemnifying Party sole control over the defense and settlement.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="9.4">Changes to Product.</span>  If required by settlement or court order, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> may: (a) obtain the right for <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> to continue using the Product; (b) replace or modify the affected component; or (c) terminate the affected Order Form and issue a pro-rated refund.
    5. <span class="header_3" id="9.5">Exclusions.</span>  <span class="coverpage_link">Provider's</span> indemnification obligations do not apply to claims resulting from modifications not authorized by Provider, unauthorized use, use in combination with items not provided by Provider, or use of an old version where a newer release would avoid the claim.
    6. <span class="header_3" id="9.6">Exclusive Remedy.</span>  This Section 9 describes each Protected Party's exclusive remedy and each Indemnifying Party's entire liability for a Covered Claim.

10. <span class="header_2" id="10">Confidentiality</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="10.1">Non-Use and Non-Disclosure.</span>  Recipient will not (a) use Discloser's Confidential Information except as needed to fulfill its obligations; nor (b) disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to anyone else. Recipient will protect Discloser's Confidential Information with no less than a reasonable standard of care.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="10.2">Exclusions.</span>  Confidential Information does not include information that (a) Recipient knew without confidentiality obligation; (b) is or becomes publicly known through no fault of Recipient; (c) Recipient receives without confidentiality obligation from an authorized third party; or (d) Recipient independently developed without reference to Discloser's Confidential Information.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="10.3">Required Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to the extent required by Applicable Laws with reasonable advance notice to the Discloser.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="10.4">Permitted Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to Users, employees, advisors, contractors, and representatives bound by confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those in this Section 10.

11. <span class="header_2" id="11">Reservation of Rights</span>
    1. Except for the limited license in Section 1.1, <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> retains all right, title, and interest in and to the Product. Except for the limited rights in Sections 1.5 and 1.6, <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> retains all right, title, and interest in and to the Customer Content.

12. <span class="header_2" id="12">General Terms</span>
    1. This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties about its subject. Modifications must be in writing signed by both parties. The <span class="keyterms_link">Governing Law</span> governs all interpretations and disputes. Either party may assign upon notice following a merger, change of control, or sale of substantially all assets.

13. <span class="header_2" id="13">Definitions</span>
    1. **"Agreement"** means the Order Form between <span class="coverpage_link">Provider</span> and <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> as governed by the Framework Terms.
    2. **"Cloud Service"** means the product described in the Order Form.
    3. **"Confidential Information"** means information identified as "confidential" or "proprietary" or that should be reasonably understood as such. Includes the existence of this Agreement and Customer Content (non-public) and non-public information about the Product.
    4. **"Customer Content"** means data, information, or materials submitted by or on behalf of <span class="coverpage_link">Customer</span> or Users to the Product but excludes Feedback.
    5. **"Prohibited Data"** means (a) patient, medical, or other protected health information regulated by HIPAA; (b) credit, debit, bank account, or other financial account numbers; (c) social security numbers, driver's license numbers, or other unique and private government ID numbers; (d) special categories of data as defined in the GDPR; and (e) other similar categories of sensitive information as set forth in Applicable Data Protection Laws.
    6. **"Standard Terms"** means these Common Paper Cloud Service Agreement Standard Terms Version 2.1, which are posted at <https://commonpaper.com/standards/cloud-service-agreement/2.1/>.
    7. **"Usage Data"** means data and information about the provision, use, and performance of the Product and related offerings based on <span class="coverpage_link">Customer's</span> or User's use of the Product.

Common Paper Cloud Service Agreement Standard Terms Version 2.1 free to use under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
