# Partnership Agreement

1. <span class="header_2">Cooperation</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Obligations.</span>  Each party will perform its <span class="businessterms_link">Obligations</span> as detailed in the Cover Page.
    2. <span class="header_3">Feedback.</span>  Each party may, but is not required to, give Feedback to the other party. All Feedback is given "AS IS". The party receiving Feedback may use it freely without any restriction or obligation.
2. <span class="header_2">Payment & Taxes</span>
    1. If the <span class="businessterms_link">Obligations</span> include payment of Fees from one party to the other, the following terms apply:
        a. <span class="header_3">Fees and Billing.</span>  Unless the Cover Page specifies a different currency, all Fees are in U.S. Dollars and are exclusive of taxes. Except for the prorated refund of prepaid Fees, Fees are non-refundable. The party receiving payment will bill or invoice the other party for Fees according to the <span class="businessterms_link">Payment Process</span>.
        b. <span class="header_3">Payment.</span>  The paying party will pay the other party its applicable Fees and related taxes according to the <span class="businessterms_link">Payment Schedule</span>.
        c. <span class="header_3">Taxes.</span>  The paying party is responsible for all duties, taxes, and levies that apply to Fees, but not for the other party's income taxes.
3. <span class="header_2">Trademark License</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Trademark License.</span>  Licensor grants to Licensee during the term of the Agreement a non-exclusive, non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, revocable, royalty-free, limited right and license in the <span class="businessterms_link">Territory</span> to use the Licensor's Brand Elements solely as necessary for Licensee to perform its <span class="businessterms_link">Obligations</span>, and only in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and any <span class="keyterms_link">Brand Guidelines</span> provided by Licensor.
    2. <span class="header_3">Reservation of Rights.</span>  Except for the limited license in Section 3.1, neither party transfers any rights in any of its products, data, or any other intellectual property. All goodwill in the Brand Elements resulting from Licensee's use will inure to the benefit of Licensor.
    3. <span class="header_3">Restrictions on Licensee.</span>  Licensee will not, except with Licensor's prior written permission: (a) alter or modify the Brand Elements; (b) use the Brand Elements in a way that implies endorsement beyond the scope of the Agreement; or (c) use the Brand Elements in any context that might harm Licensor's reputation.
    4. <span class="header_3">Samples and Approvals.</span>  Licensor has the right to inspect and approve all uses of the Brand Elements at any time.
4. <span class="header_2">Privacy</span>
    1. If the parties have a <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, each party will comply with its obligations in the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, the terms of the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span> will control each party's rights and obligations as to Personal Data, and the terms of the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span> will control in the event of any conflict with this Agreement.
5. <span class="header_2">Escalation Procedure</span>
    1. Each party agrees to give the other party written notice of specific issue(s) in dispute about the Agreement prior to seeking any form of legal relief. Within 30 days after receipt of notice, at least one knowledgeable representative from each party will hold at least one meeting for the purpose of attempting in good faith to resolve the dispute.
6. <span class="header_2">Term & Termination</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Term.</span>  This Agreement starts on the <span class="keyterms_link">Effective Date</span> and continues until the <span class="businessterms_link">End Date</span>, unless earlier terminated.
    2. <span class="header_3">Termination.</span>  Either party may terminate the Agreement immediately: (a) if the other party fails to cure a material breach upon 30 days notice; (b) if the other party fails to cure a brand use breach within 5 days notice; or (c) upon notice for insolvency or dissolution.
    3. <span class="header_3">Force Majeure.</span>  Either party may terminate on notice if a Force Majeure Event prevents either party from performing its <span class="businessterms_link">Obligations</span> for 30 or more consecutive days.
    4. <span class="header_3">Effect of Termination.</span>  Upon any expiration or termination: (a) all Licensee rights under Section 3 immediately terminate and revert to Licensor; (b) each Recipient will return or destroy Discloser's Confidential Information; (c) fees accrued before termination remain payable.
    5. <span class="header_3">Survival.</span> Sections 2, 3.2, 3.3, 6.4, 6.5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 survive expiration or termination.
7. <span class="header_2">Representations & Warranties</span>
    1. Each party represents and warrants to the other that: (a) it has the legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement; (b) it will comply with all Applicable Laws; (c) it has all necessary rights to collect and share any Personal Data under this Agreement; and (d) its Brand Elements do not infringe the rights of any third party.
8. <span class="header_2">Disclaimer of Warranties</span>
    1. Except for the warranties in Section 7, <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Partner</span> each disclaim all other warranties, whether express or implied, including the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and title.
9. <span class="header_2">Limitation of Liability</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Liability Caps.</span>
        a. **Except as provided in Section 9.3, each party's total cumulative liability for all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">General Cap Amount</span>.**
        b. **If there are <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span>, each party's total cumulative liability for the <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Cap Amount</span>.**
    2. <span class="header_3">Damages Waiver.</span>  Except as provided in Section 9.3, under no circumstances will either party be liable to the other for lost profits or revenues, or for consequential, special, indirect, exemplary, punitive, or incidental damages.
    3. <span class="header_3">Exceptions.</span>  The caps in Section 9.1(a) do not apply to <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span>. The caps in Section 9.1 do not apply to <span class="keyterms_link">Unlimited Claims</span>. The damages waiver in Section 9.2 does not apply to <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> or a breach of Section 11 (Confidentiality).
10. <span class="header_2">Indemnification</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Protection by Company.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="keyterms_link">Partner</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Company Covered Claim</span> and associated out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    2. <span class="header_3">Protection by Partner.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Partner</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Partner Covered Claims</span> and associated out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    3. <span class="header_3">Procedure.</span>  The Indemnifying Party's obligations are contingent upon the Protected Party: (a) promptly notifying the Indemnifying Party; (b) providing reasonable assistance; and (c) giving the Indemnifying Party sole control over the defense and settlement.
    4. <span class="header_3">Exclusive Remedy.</span>  This Section 10 describes each Protected Party's exclusive remedy and each Indemnifying Party's entire liability for a Covered Claim.
11. <span class="header_2">Confidentiality</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Non-Use and Non-Disclosure.</span>  Recipient will not (a) use Discloser's Confidential Information except to fulfill its obligations; nor (b) disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to anyone else. Recipient will protect Discloser's Confidential Information using at least the same protections it uses for its own similar information but no less than a reasonable standard of care.
    2. <span class="header_3">Exclusions.</span>  Confidential Information does not include information that (a) Recipient knew without confidentiality obligation; (b) is or becomes publicly known through no fault of Recipient; (c) Recipient receives under no confidentiality obligation from an authorized third party; or (d) Recipient independently developed without reference to Discloser's Confidential Information.
    3. <span class="header_3">Required Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to the extent required by Applicable Laws with reasonable advance notice.
    4. <span class="header_3">Permitted Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to employees, advisors, contractors, and representatives bound by confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those in this Section 11.
12. <span class="header_2">General Terms</span>
    1. This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties about its subject. Modifications must be in writing and signed by each party. The <span class="keyterms_link">Governing Law</span> governs all interpretations and disputes. Neither party may assign without prior written consent, except upon merger, change of control, or sale of substantially all assets.
13. <span class="header_2">Definitions</span>
    1. **"Brand Elements"** means a party's trademarks, service marks, names, and logos.
    2. **"Confidential Information"** means information identified as "confidential" or "proprietary" or that should be reasonably understood as such. Includes the existence of this Agreement.
    3. **"Cover Page"** means a document that is signed by the parties, identifies <span class="keyterms_link">Company</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Partner</span>, incorporates these Standard Terms, and includes definitions or descriptions for Variables.
    4. **"Feedback"** means suggestions, feedback, or comments made by one party about the other party's products, services, or related offerings.
    5. **"Standard Terms"** means these Common Paper Partnership Standard Terms Version 1.0, which are posted at [https://commonpaper.com/standards/partnership-agreement/1.0](https://commonpaper.com/standards/partnership-agreement/1.0).

Common Paper Partnership Agreement Standard Terms Version 1.0 free to use under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
