# Pilot Agreement

1. <span class="header_2" id="1">Pilot Access</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="1.1">Access and Use.</span>  During the <span class="orderform_link">Pilot Period</span> and subject to the terms of this Agreement, <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> may access and use the Product solely for <span class="orderform_link">Customer's</span> Evaluation Purposes.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="1.2">License.</span>  If the Product contains Software, then, during the <span class="orderform_link">Pilot Period</span> and subject to the terms of this Agreement, <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> grants <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> a limited, non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, non-transferable license to install and use such Software on systems owned or controlled by <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> solely for <span class="orderform_link">Customer's</span> Evaluation Purposes.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="1.3">User Accounts.</span>  <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> is responsible for all actions on Users' accounts and for all Users' compliance with this Agreement.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="1.4">Customer Content.</span>  <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> may copy, display, modify, and use Customer Content only as needed to provide and maintain the Product and related offerings.
    5. <span class="header_3" id="1.5">Feedback and Usage Data.</span>  <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> may, but is not required to, give <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> Feedback, in which case <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> gives Feedback "AS IS". <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> may use all Feedback freely without any restriction or obligation.
    6. <span class="header_3" id="1.6">Restrictions.</span>  Except as expressly permitted by this Agreement, <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> will not (and will not allow anyone else to): (i) reverse engineer, decompile, or attempt to discover any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of the Product; (ii) provide, sell, transfer, sublicense, lend, distribute, rent, or otherwise allow others to access or use the Product; (iii) remove any proprietary notices or labels; (iv) copy, modify, or create derivative works of the Product; (v) conduct security or vulnerability tests on, interfere with the operation of, cause performance degradation of, or circumvent access restrictions of the Product; (vi) use the Product to develop a competing service or product; or (vii) use the Product with any High Risk Activities or with any activity prohibited by Applicable Laws.
    7. <span class="header_3" id="1.7">Reservation of Rights.</span>  <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> retains all right, title, and interest in and to the Product.
2. <span class="header_2" id="2">Term & Termination</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="2.1">Agreement.</span>  The Agreement will start on the <span class="orderform_link">Effective Date</span> and will continue through the <span class="orderform_link">Pilot Period</span>.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="2.2">Termination.</span>  Either party may terminate the Agreement immediately: (a) if the other party fails to cure a material breach following 30 days notice; (b) upon notice for uncurable breaches or insolvency; or (c) for any or no reason following 30 days notice.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="2.3">Effect of Termination.</span>  Upon expiration or termination: (a) <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> will no longer have any right to use the Product; (b) upon <span class="orderform_link">Customer's</span> request, <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> will delete Customer Content within 60 days; (c) each Recipient will return or destroy Discloser's Confidential Information.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="2.4">Survival.</span>  Sections 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 2.3, 2.4, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive expiration or termination.
3. <span class="header_2" id="3">Representations</span>
    1. Each party represents to the other that: (a) it has the legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement; and (b) it is duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the Applicable Laws of the jurisdiction of its origin.
4. <span class="header_2" id="4">Disclaimer of Warranties</span>
    1. **The Product is provided on an "AS IS" and "AS AVAILABLE" basis. <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> disclaims all warranties and conditions, whether express or implied, including the implied warranties and conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement.**
5. <span class="header_2" id="5">Limitation of Liability</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="5.1">General Liability Cap.</span>  **Each party's total cumulative liability for all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will not be more than the <span class="orderform_link">General Cap Amount</span>.**
    2. <span class="header_3" id="5.2">Damages Waiver.</span>  **Except for a breach of Section 6 (Confidentiality), under no circumstances will either party be liable to the other for lost profits or revenues, or for consequential, special, indirect, exemplary, punitive, or incidental damages relating to this Agreement.**
6. <span class="header_2" id="6">Confidentiality</span>
    1. <span class="header_3" id="6.1">Non-Use and Non-Disclosure.</span>  Recipient will not (a) use Discloser's Confidential Information except as needed to fulfill its obligations; nor (b) disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to anyone else. Recipient will protect Discloser's Confidential Information using at least the same protections Recipient uses for its own similar information but no less than a reasonable standard of care.
    2. <span class="header_3" id="6.2">Exclusions.</span>  Confidential Information does not include information that (a) Recipient knew without confidentiality obligation before disclosure; (b) is or becomes publicly known through no fault of Recipient; (c) Recipient receives without confidentiality obligation from an authorized third party; or (d) Recipient independently developed without reference to Discloser's Confidential Information.
    3. <span class="header_3" id="6.3">Required Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to the extent required by Applicable Laws with reasonable advance notice to the Discloser.
    4. <span class="header_3" id="6.4">Permitted Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to Users, employees, advisors, contractors, and representatives who each have a need to know and are bound by confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those in this Section 6.
7. <span class="header_2" id="7">General Terms</span>
    1. This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties about its subject. Modifications must be in writing signed by both parties. The <span class="orderform_link">Governing Law</span> governs all interpretations and disputes. Either party may assign upon notice following a merger, change of control, or sale of substantially all assets.
8. <span class="header_2" id="8">Definitions</span>
    1. **"Agreement"** means the Standard Terms, the Order Form between <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span> and <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span>, and any policies and documents referenced in or attached to the Order Form.
    2. **"Confidential Information"** means information identified as "confidential" or "proprietary" or that should be reasonably understood as such. Includes the existence of this Agreement.
    3. **"Customer Content"** means data, information, or materials submitted by or on behalf of <span class="orderform_link">Customer</span> or Users to the Product but excludes Feedback.
    4. **"Evaluation Purposes"** means the internal use of the Product solely to test and evaluate the Product to determine whether to enter into a Definitive Agreement with <span class="orderform_link">Provider</span>.
    5. **"Feedback"** means suggestions, feedback, or comments about the Product or related offerings.
    6. **"Standard Terms"** means these Common Paper Pilot Agreement Standard Terms Version 1.1, which are posted at <https://commonpaper.com/standards/pilot-agreement/1.1>.

Common Paper Pilot Agreement Standard Terms Version 1.1 free to use under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
