# Professional Services Agreement

1. <span class="header_2">Services</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Providing Services.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> or its Affiliates may enter SOWs with <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span>. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will perform the Services as detailed in an applicable SOW. Each SOW together with the Key Terms and Standard Terms will constitute a separate agreement. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will comply with <span class="keyterms_link">Customer Policies</span>, if any.
    2. <span class="header_3">Cooperation.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> will reasonably cooperate with <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> to allow the performance of Services. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will provide its own equipment and tools to perform the Services.
    3. <span class="header_3">Change Orders.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> or <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> may amend any SOW by entering a Change Order. A Change Order will not be binding until both parties agree in writing.
    4. <span class="header_3">Acceptance.</span>  If according to the SOW <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> are subject to this section, <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> will be deemed to have approved a <span class="sow_link">Deliverable</span> if <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> does not reject the <span class="sow_link">Deliverable</span> within the <span class="sow_link">Rejection Period</span>. If <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> rejects a <span class="sow_link">Deliverable</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> must notify <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> in writing with reasonable detail about why the <span class="sow_link">Deliverable</span> did not meet the requirements in the SOW.
    5. <span class="header_3">Subcontractors.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may use Subcontractors to perform the Services only with <span class="keyterms_link">Customer's</span> prior permission. However, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may use its Affiliates to perform Services without <span class="keyterms_link">Customer's</span> prior permission.
    6. <span class="header_3">Customer Obligations.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> will comply with <span class="sow_link">Customer Obligations</span>, if any.
2. <span class="header_2">Intellectual Property</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Deliverables.</span>  Except for Pre-Existing Materials and Third-Party Materials, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> assigns all right, title, and interest in the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> (if any) to <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> at the <span class="sow_link">Time of Assignment</span>.
    2. <span class="header_3">Customer Materials.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may copy, display, modify, and use Customer Materials only as needed to provide the Services. <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> is responsible for the accuracy and content of Customer Materials.
    3. <span class="header_3">Pre-Existing Materials.</span>  To the extent <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> incorporates Pre-Existing Materials into <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span>, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> grants <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> a non-exclusive, non-transferrable, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide license to use Pre-Existing Materials only as necessary to use the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span>.
    4. <span class="header_3">Third-Party Materials.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may incorporate Third-Party Materials into <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> only if allowed in the SOW and as authorized by <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> in writing.
    5. <span class="header_3">Feedback and Usage Data.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> may, but is not required to, give <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> Feedback, in which case <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> gives Feedback "AS IS". <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> may use all Feedback freely without any restriction or obligation.
    6. <span class="header_3">Reservation of Rights.</span>  Except for <span class="keyterms_link">Customer's</span> ownership of <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span>, neither party transfers any rights in any of their products, data, or any other intellectual property.
3. <span class="header_2">Privacy & Security</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Personal Data.</span>  If the parties have a <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, each party will comply with its obligations in the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span>, the terms of the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span> will control each party's rights and obligations as to Personal Data, and the terms of the <span class="keyterms_link">DPA</span> will control in the event of any conflict with this Agreement.
    2. <span class="header_3">Security.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will comply with the <span class="keyterms_link">Security Policy</span>, if any.
4. <span class="header_2">Payment & Taxes</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Fees and Invoices.</span>  Unless the currency is specified in the SOW, all <span class="sow_link">Fees</span> are in U.S. Dollars and are exclusive of taxes. Except for the prorated refund of prepaid <span class="sow_link">Fees</span> allowed with specific termination rights, <span class="sow_link">Fees</span> are non-refundable. <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will send invoices for <span class="sow_link">Fees</span> as described in the SOW.
    2. <span class="header_3">Payment.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> will pay <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> the <span class="sow_link">Fees</span> and taxes in each invoice within the <span class="sow_link">Payment Period</span>.
    3. <span class="header_3">Taxes.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> is responsible for all duties, taxes, and levies that apply to <span class="sow_link">Fees</span>, but is not responsible for <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> income taxes.
    4. <span class="header_3">Payment Dispute.</span>  If <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> has a good-faith disagreement about the amounts charged on an invoice, <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> must notify <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> during the <span class="sow_link">Payment Period</span> and must pay all undisputed amounts on time. The parties will work together to resolve the dispute within 15 days after the end of the <span class="sow_link">Payment Period</span>.
5. <span class="header_2">Term & Termination</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Term.</span>  This Agreement will start on the <span class="keyterms_link">Effective Date</span> and continue until 12 months have elapsed since the end of the latest <span class="keyterms_link">SOW Term</span> end date.
    2. <span class="header_3">Termination.</span>
        a. Either party may terminate this Agreement or an SOW immediately if the other party (i) fails to cure a material breach within 30 days after receiving notice; (ii) materially breaches in a manner that cannot be cured; (iii) dissolves or stops conducting business without a successor; (iv) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (v) becomes the debtor in insolvency, receivership, or bankruptcy proceedings continuing for more than 60 days.
        b. Either party may terminate an affected SOW immediately if a Force Majeure Event prevents <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> from providing the Services for 30 or more consecutive days.
        c. Either party may terminate this Agreement for any or no reason if there are no active SOWs.
    3. <span class="header_3">Effect of Termination.</span>  Upon any expiration or termination: (a) termination of the Agreement automatically terminates all SOWs; (b) <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will no longer have to provide the Services; (c) each Recipient will return or destroy Discloser's Confidential Information; (d) Fees accrued before termination remain payable; (e) Provider will issue a refund for any unearned, prepaid Fees where Customer terminates for cause.
    4. <span class="header_3">Survival.</span>  Sections 2.1, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6, 4, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 survive expiration or termination.
6. <span class="header_2">Representations & Warranties</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Mutual.</span>  Each party represents and warrants that: (a) it has the legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement; (b) it is duly organized and in good standing; (c) it will comply with all Applicable Laws; and (d) it will comply with the <span class="keyterms_link">Additional Warranties</span>.
    2. <span class="header_3">From Customer.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> represents and warrants that <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> use of Customer Materials does not and will not infringe anyone else's intellectual property rights and that <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> has all rights necessary to provide Customer Materials under Section 2.
    3. <span class="header_3">From Provider.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> represents and warrants that: (a) it will perform the Services in a timely, competent, and professional manner; (b) the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> do not and will not infringe anyone else's intellectual property rights; (c) the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> will conform to the requirements in the SOW; and (d) it has all rights necessary to perform the Services and convey the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span>.
    4. <span class="header_3">Warranty Remedy.</span>  If <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> breaches the warranty in Section 6.3(c), <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will reperform the Services within 45 days of receiving sufficient details. If <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> cannot resolve the issue, <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> may terminate the affected SOW and receive a prorated refund.
7. <span class="header_2">Disclaimer of Warranties</span>
    1. Except for the warranties in Section 6, <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> each **disclaim all other warranties, whether express or implied, including the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement**.
8. <span class="header_2">Limitation of Liability</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Liability Caps.</span>  **If there are <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span>, each party's total cumulative liability for the <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> arising out of or relating to this Agreement will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Cap Amount</span>. Each party's total cumulative liability for all other claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will not be more than the <span class="keyterms_link">General Cap Amount</span>.**
    2. <span class="header_3">Damages Waiver.</span>  **Under no circumstances will either party be liable to the other for lost profits or revenues, or for consequential, special, indirect, exemplary, punitive, or incidental damages relating to this Agreement.**
    3. <span class="header_3">Exceptions.</span>  The liability caps do not apply to any <span class="keyterms_link">Unlimited Claims</span>. The damages waiver does not apply to any <span class="keyterms_link">Increased Claims</span> or a breach of Section 11 (Confidentiality).
9. <span class="header_2">Indemnification</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Protection by Provider.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Provider Covered Claims</span> and associated out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    2. <span class="header_3">Protection by Customer.</span>  <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> from and against all <span class="keyterms_link">Customer Covered Claims</span> and associated out-of-pocket damages, awards, settlements, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
    3. <span class="header_3">Procedure.</span>  The Indemnifying Party's obligations are contingent upon the Protected Party: (a) promptly notifying the Indemnifying Party; (b) providing reasonable assistance; and (c) giving the Indemnifying Party sole control over the defense and settlement.
    4. <span class="header_3">Exclusive Remedy.</span>  This Section 9 describes each Protected Party's exclusive remedy and each Indemnifying Party's entire liability for a Covered Claim.
10. <span class="header_2">Insurance</span>
    1. During the term of the Agreement and for six months after, each party will carry commercial insurance policies with coverage limits that meet the relevant <span class="keyterms_link">Insurance Minimums</span> required in the SOW, if any.
11. <span class="header_2">Confidentiality</span>
    1. <span class="header_3">Non-Use and Non-Disclosure.</span>  Recipient will (a) only use Discloser's Confidential Information to fulfill its obligations or exercise its rights under this Agreement; and (b) not disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to anyone else. Recipient will protect Discloser's Confidential Information with no less than a reasonable standard of care.
    2. <span class="header_3">Exclusions.</span>  Confidential Information does not include information that (a) Recipient knew without confidentiality obligation; (b) is or becomes publicly known through no fault of Recipient; (c) Recipient receives without confidentiality obligation from an authorized third party; or (d) Recipient independently developed without reference to Discloser's Confidential Information.
    3. <span class="header_3">Required Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to the extent required by Applicable Laws with reasonable advance notice to the Discloser.
    4. <span class="header_3">Permitted Disclosures.</span>  Recipient may disclose Discloser's Confidential Information to employees, advisors, contractors, and representatives bound by confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those in this Section 11.
12. <span class="header_2">General Terms</span>
    1. This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties about its subject. Modifications must be in writing and signed by both parties. The <span class="keyterms_link">Governing Law</span> governs all interpretations and disputes. <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> may assign upon notice following a merger, change of control, or sale of substantially all assets.
13. <span class="header_2">Definitions</span>
    1. **"Agreement"** means these Standard Terms, the Key Terms between <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> and <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span>, and the policies and documents referenced in or attached to the Key Terms.
    2. **"Change Order"** means a document that identifies the SOW being changed, describes what the parties are changing, and is approved by an authorized representative of each party.
    3. **"Confidential Information"** means information identified as "confidential" or "proprietary" or that should be reasonably understood as such. Includes the existence of this Agreement and Cover Page information.
    4. **"Customer Materials"** means data, information, or materials owned or provided by or on behalf of <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span> for use with the Services, but excludes Feedback and <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span>-procured Third-Party Materials.
    5. **"Feedback"** means suggestions, feedback, or comments about the Services or related offerings.
    6. **"Pre-Existing Materials"** means any information, tools, materials, or intellectual property that <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> developed or owned before the <span class="keyterms_link">Effective Date</span> or developed after that date independent of the Agreement.
    7. **"Services"** means the services described in a SOW, including the creation of <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span> (if any).
    8. **"SOW"** means a Cover Page that includes the key business details and definitions for this Agreement. A SOW may include details about the <span class="sow_link">Deliverables</span>, <span class="sow_link">Fees</span>, or other details about the Services.
    9. **"Subcontractors"** means other people or companies engaged by <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span> to perform some of the Services, including <span class="keyterms_link">Provider's</span> Affiliates.
    10. **"Third-Party Materials"** means any information, tools, materials, or intellectual property owned by anyone other than <span class="keyterms_link">Provider</span>, its Affiliates, or <span class="keyterms_link">Customer</span>.

Common Paper Professional Services Agreement Standard Terms free to use under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
